We've covered that theory behind loaders,
as well as a code sample.
So, you're ready to practice implementing a loader on your own in a quick Report App.
Your App already successfully fetches earthquake data from the Internet.
So in this task, you'll be refactoring your app to use
an AsyncTaskLoader instead of an AsyncTask.
Code refactoring means changing
the implementation details of how your code is structured,
while still maintaining the same external behavior.
The UI will still look and behave the same,
so the end user of the app won't notice the difference.
But now will be more memory efficient because loaders can
handle device rotations and the activity life cycle much better.
There are three pieces we need to put together to
swap out our AsyncTask for an AsyncTaskLoader.
First, we need to write a subclass of the AsyncTaskLoader,
which will call the earthquakeLoader class.
The most important method is load and
background which works just like AsyncTasks do in background.
Next, we need to do some plumbing to allow earthquake activity to use our Loader.
So we need to implement the LoaderCallbacks interface.
That way, the Loader manager can either notify us to create
a Loader or notify us when our Loader has results to deliver.
Finally, when the EarthquakeActivity is created,
we should ask the Loader manager to initialize
a new Earthquake Loader or we use an existing one.
Here's another way to think about the code refactoring.
In essence, you want to move over the code that was in
the AsyncTasks doInBackground method to the Loaders, LoadInBackground method.
As for the AsyncTasks onPostsExecute method,
that code should be moved over to the Earthquake Activities onLoadFinished method,
because that's run on the main threat.
In this method, we take the result from the Loader and update the UI.
As an extra hint, you can check the notes below
the quiz for a jest with some partial code to help you get started.
It doesn't have all the details of a proper java file,
such as a package name or import statements,
but hopefully, it points you in the right direction.
When you're done with these three steps,
check these boxes right here to continue.